Add information on how to update the documentation to the docs (#436)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/development/documentation.md

---
title: Documentation
sidebar_label: Documentation
---

> 

Reviewer: Maybe start with a sentence that effectively says "if you want to update this documentation, here's how" so it's obvious that this is documentation for the documentation and not documentation for building and using ZMK?

:::note

> The documentation is written with [docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/). You don't need install anything specific for docusaurus but it can be helpful to reference their documentation if needed.

Reviewer: "Docusaurus" is a proper noun and should be capitalized.

The bit about not needing to install anything might be confusing, because you do need Node if not going through Docker. Maybe either clarify that the Docker image has everything you need or just drop the part of this sentence about installing things?

:::

:::note

> If you are working with the documentation from within VSCode+Docker please be aware the documentation will not be auto-generated when making changes while the server is running. You'll n eed to restart the server when saving changes to the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are working with the documentation from within VS Code+Docker please be aware the documentation will not be auto-generated when making changes while the server is running. You'll need to restart the server when saving changes to the documentation.
```

Use "VS Code" instead of "VSCode".

Typo: "n eed" -> "need"

:::

## Preparation

> In order to view and verify documentation updates locally you'll need to install `node.js` and `npm`. Please see [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/) for details on how to install these tools.

Reviewer: I typically see "Node.js" with a capital N (several examples in https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Node.js)

## Verifying Documentation Updates Locally

To verify documentation updates locally, follow the following procedure.

> 1. Navigate to the `docs` folder

Reviewer: Would be good to mention that all of this needs to be done in a terminal (Bash/PowerShell/Command Prompt).

> 2. Run `npm ci` to build the necessary tools if you haven't run it before or the zmk sources were updated

Reviewer: I have run into issues on Windows where `npm ci` wouldn't correctly install things while `npm install` would. It's worth checking if that's still a problem and maybe making a note of it here if it is.

Author: I've never needed to run npm install. Should I still include a note/info block?

Reviewer: If `npm ci` is working now, then no need to include it. We can always update it later if that issue pops back up.

3. Run `npm start` to start the local server that will let you see your documentation updates via a web browser

> 4. Open a web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view your changes

Reviewer: At least when running it natively, `npm start` will automatically launch a browser to this address. Maybe prefix this with something like "If it doesn't open automatically, ..."

---
title: Documentation
sidebar_label: Documentation
---

:::info Please Note

> This page outlines how to update the zmk documentation, not the zmk firmware sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page outlines how to update the ZMK documentation, not documentation for ZMK as a whole.
```

:::

:::note

> The documentation is written with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/). The zmk source code has all of the necessary Docusaurus dependencies included but referencing their documentation can be helpful at times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The documentation is written with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/). The ZMK source code has all of the necessary Docusaurus dependencies included but referencing their documentation can be helpful at times.
```

:::

:::note
If you are working with the documentation from within VS Code+Docker please be aware the documentation will not be auto-generated when making changes while the server is running. You'll need to restart the server when saving changes to the documentation.
:::

## Preparation

In order to view and verify documentation updates locally you'll need to install `Node.js` and `npm`. Please see [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/) for details on how to install these tools.

> ## Verifying Documentation Updates Locally

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Testing Documentation Updates Locally
```
Seems to me like you're testing your documentation updates rather than verifying them?

> To verify documentation updates locally, follow the following procedure. The `npm` commands and first step will need to be run from a terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After making updates to the documentation locally, you'll want to test the updates locally using the following procedure. The `npm` commands and first step will need to be run from a terminal.
```

1. Navigate to the `docs` folder

> 2. Run `npm ci` to build the necessary tools if you haven't run it before or the zmk sources were updated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run `npm ci` to build the necessary tools if you haven't run it before or the ZMK sources were updated
```

3. Run `npm start` to start the local server that will let you see your documentation updates via a web browser
4. If a web browser doesn't open automatically: you'll need to open a browser window or tab and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view your changes
5. Verify the changes look good
6. Run the formatting and checks from the section below
7. Submit any changes as a Pull Request

> ## Formatting and Verifying Documentation Updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Formatting and Linting Your Changes
```

Prior to submitting a documentation pull request, you'll want to run the format and check commands. These commands are run as part of the verification process on pull requests so it's good to run them ahead of submitting documentation updates.

> The format command can be run with the following procedure in a terminal that's inside the zmk source directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The format command can be run with the following procedure in a terminal that's inside the ZMK source directory.
```

1. Navigate to the `docs` folder
2. Run `npm run prettier:format`

> The check commands can be run with the following procedure in a terminal that's inside the zmk source directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The check commands can be run with the following procedure in a terminal that's inside the ZMK source directory.
```

1. Navigate to the `docs` folder

> 2. Run `npm run prettier:check`

Reviewer: Might be redundant, since `npm run prettier:format` should fix any issues this would find, but probably doesn't hurt to leave it.

Author: I'd like to leave it in case folks forget to run prettier / want to verify as they go along.

3. Run `npm run lint`

> 4. Run `npm run build`

Reviewer: Might be helpful to explicitly say that if any of these steps print an error, you should fix the error and run the checks again.

---
title: Documentation
sidebar_label: Documentation
---

This document outlines how to test your documentation changes locally and prepare the changes for a pull request.

The documentation is written with [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/). The ZMK source code has all of the necessary Docusaurus dependencies included but referencing their documentation can be helpful at times.

The general process for updating the ZMK documentation is:

1. Update the documentation
2. Test the changes locally
3. Ensure the sources are formatted properly and linted
4. Create a Pull Request for review and inclusion into the ZMK sources

:::note
If you are working with the documentation from within VS Code+Docker please be aware the documentation will not be auto-generated when making changes while the server is running. You'll need to restart the server when saving changes to the documentation.
:::

## Preparation

After making updates to the documentation locally, you'll want to test the updates locally using the following procedure. The `npm` commands and first step will need to be run from a terminal.

## Testing Documentation Updates Locally

> To verify documentation updates locally, follow the following procedure. The `npm` commands and first step will need to be run from a terminal.

Reviewer 2: This seems repetitive. I see that the first section is supposed to outline the updating of documentation and the next is testing the changes, but I'm wondering if the "Preparation" section can be removed or maybe could be changed to a small write up about editing files?

Author: This is definitely redundant now that npm is included in the dev container and elsewhere. I'm going to go ahead and remove the preparation section in favor of an "updating" section that includes some of the early on notes.

1. Navigate to the `docs` folder
2. Run `npm ci` to build the necessary tools if you haven't run it before or the ZMK sources were updated
3. Run `npm start` to start the local server that will let you see your documentation updates via a web browser
4. If a web browser doesn't open automatically: you'll need to open a browser window or tab and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view your changes
5. Verify the changes look good

> 6. Run the formatting and checks from the section below
> 7. Submit any changes as a Pull Request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Once you've tested your changes, you're ready to format and lint the changes to prepare your pull request.
```

## Formatting and Linting Your Changes

Prior to submitting a documentation pull request, you'll want to run the format and check commands. These commands are run as part of the verification process on pull requests so it's good to run them ahead of submitting documentation updates.

The format command can be run with the following procedure in a terminal that's inside the ZMK source directory.

1. Navigate to the `docs` folder
2. Run `npm run prettier:format`

The check commands can be run with the following procedure in a terminal that's inside the ZMK source directory.

1. Navigate to the `docs` folder
2. Run `npm run prettier:check`
3. Run `npm run lint`
4. Run `npm run build`

:::warning
If any of the above steps throw an error, they need to be addressed and all of the checks re-run prior to submitting a pull request.

> :::

Reviewer 2: Maybe after this you could make a small section about making a pull request with a link to some resource that would help someone new to pull requests on GitHub?

Author: I would like to leave the PR creation piece off these docs. There was recent discussion in discord about PR's and generally folks were linking to the github documentation.

If we do anything related to Pull Requests I think it should be a dedicated area within the documentation and cross linked from other pages where relevant.

Reviewer 2: I meant more of a section just saying to create a pull request after the formatting and linting are finished. It doesn't need to be in depth or anything, more of a resolution to the page, which states creating the pull request as the last step.

Author: Will add and update
